ACT I – The Pasture Rumbles
Scene: A sunny meadow. Two rival herds graze tensely.

Tybull:
I hate the Moontagues! Their milk tastes of sour betrayal!

Bullvolio:
Peace, Tybull! Let’s not turn this pasture red with rage.

[They charge. Moo-ne fights fly. Cows clash horns. Moo-meo enters, forlorn.]

Moo-meo (melancholy):
Oh, love is a thorn in the haystack of life.

Mercowtio:
Snap out of it, Moo! Come crash the Cowsulet barn dance tonight.
There’ll be heifers! Hay snacks! Hoof-tapping beats!

Moo-meo:
Alright... but only because I need to forget this heartbreak.

ACT II – Trough of Love
Scene: The Cowsulet barn dance. Moo-meo sneaks in wearing a glittery cowbell.

Cow-liet (to herself):
Who is that mysterious bull with the dreamy eyes and uneven spots?

Moo-meo:
I’ve never seen such beauty in all the dairy lands.

[They lock eyes. Moo softly. Hooves touch.]

Cow-liet:
You move like wind through wheat.

Moo-meo:
And you shine brighter than a heat lamp in winter.

[They kiss, then part.]

Dairynurse (aside to Cow-liet):
Child! That’s a Moontague! Forbidden fodder!

ACT III – The Secret Stable
Scene: A moonlit barn. Friar Tucktale munches hay as Moo-meo and Cow-liet approach.

Friar Tucktale:
You sure you wanna do this? This is forbidden love, not some hayride romance.

Moo-meo:
We’re in love, good Friar! Like cows and cud.

Cow-liet:
Moo-meo completes me like cream completes scones.

Friar Tucktale:
Then I moo-nite you in holy hoof-matrimony.

[They are wed. Elsewhere, Tybull approaches Moo-meo.]

Tybull:
Draw your horns, coward!

Mercowtio:
I'll fight in Moo-meo’s place!

[Tybull gores Mercowtio.]

Mercowtio (dying):
A plague on both your paddocks…

Moo-meo (enraged):
You’ve spilt my best friend’s milk!
[He charges Tybull and defeats him.]

Friar Tucktale:
You’ve broken the peace. You must flee to Cowbanish!

ACT IV – Moo-tiny in the Barnhouse
Scene: Cowsulet barn. Cow-liet is told she must marry Count Cowris.

Cow-liet:
I’d rather be milked in front of the whole herd than marry that pompous bull!

Dairynurse:
Oh dear heifer, speak to the Friar!

[At Friar Tucktale’s place.]

Cow-liet:
Help me, wise goat!

Friar Tucktale:
Drink this potion. It’ll make you sleep like a cow in warm clover. You’ll seem dead. Moo-meo will come rescue you.

Cow-liet:
I trust you. May my dreams be filled with greenest pastures.

ACT V – Moo-sunderstood Ending
Scene: Cow-liet’s barn stall. Moo-meo hears she is “dead.”

Moo-meo (distraught):
My udder half is gone? Then I have nothing.
I’ll eat this poisoned hay and moo no more.

[He munches. Falls.]

[Cow-liet wakes moments later.]

Cow-liet:
Moo-meo? No... no! Why didn’t the Friar text you!?

[She sees his empty eyes and stabs herself with a pitchfork tine.]

[The herds find them.]

Lord Moontague:
We have lost our calves...

Lord Cowsulet:
Let us end this feud. No more pasture wars.

CURTAIN
Friar Tucktale (final lines):
Let this be a tale for calves to come:
Love can heal what horns have done.

